---
title: Fuzzing Parity Code
---

Fuzzing is a great tool for coverage testing, and discovering bugs. Rust has a utility (`cargo-fuzz`) for tying into the powerful `libFuzzer` and sanitizer libraries packaged with LLVM.

## Installing Cargo-Fuzz

Cargo-fuzz is a tool available through the `cargo` toolchain, and requires the nightly compiler. Ensure that the nightly compiler is available on the system where cargo-fuzz is going to be installed. 

For example, the following commands utilize rustup and cargo install to setup a fuzzing environment:

```
rustup install nightly
rustup default nightly
cargo install cargo-fuzz
```

## Initializing Fuzz Tests

Cargo-fuzz needs a special file structure to work properly. Luckily, cargo-fuzz comes packed with a tool that makes this setup very simple.

Navigate to the root directory of the package you want to test, then run:

```
cd /path/to/package/root
cargo-fuzz init [-t first_test_name]
```

After running the above commands, you should have a `fuzz` directory in the current working directory. This directory contains everything cargo-fuzz will need to start fuzzing the package!

Under the `fuzz/fuzz_targets` directory, there should be a single Rust source file. If no initial target is provided (the `-t` flag used during `cargo-fuzz init`), the first test should be called `fuzz_target_1.rs`. If a initialization target was provided, the first file will be the supplied target name.

## Running Fuzz Tests

Running fuzz tests is similarly easy to setting up the fuzz directory. From the same directory where the fuzz tests were initialized, run the following command:

```
cargo-fuzz run <test_name> # do NOT include the .rs from the file name
```

Since the test harness doesn't include any fuzzing code yet, the test will run indefinitely (no crashes will be found). However, some interesting output will be generated by cargo-fuzz, and the fuzzer will actually run the empty test harness. 

For details on cargo-fuzz output, check the great write-up [here](https://llvm.org/docs/LibFuzzer.html#output).

## Writing Fuzz Tests

So, the tools are installed, the project directory is instrumented, and there is an empty fuzzing harness. Now what?

Let's fill in the blanks using a simple test case, fuzzing the keccak hash library used by Parity.

First, repeat the steps to initialize a new fuzzing project:

```
cd /path/to/parity/util/hash
rustup run nightly bash # run a bash shell setup for nightly Rust
cargo-fuzz init -t keccak
```

Now, there should be a `fuzz` directory with an empty fuzz harness called `keccak.rs`. Let's open the file:

```
(fuzz/fuzz_targets/keccak.rs)
#![no_main]
#[macro_use] extern crate libfuzzer_sys;
extern crate keccak_hash;

fuzz_target!(|data: &[u8]| {
    // fuzz code goes here
});
```

Most of this is boilerplate we don't have to worry about for now. If we look inside `util/hash/lib.rs`, we find the function we're interested in `pub fn keccak<T: AsRef<[u8]>>(s: T) -> H256`. Well this is just too easy, `keccak()` takes a ref pointer to a u8 slice for input, which is just what cargo-fuzz provides via the `fuzz_target!()` macro.

Now we just need to make `keccak()` visible to our fuzzer, and supply it with the input supplied in `data`:

```
#![no_main]
#[macro_use] extern crate libfuzzer_sys;
extern crate keccak_hash;
use keccak_hash::keccak;

fuzz_target!(|data: &[u8]| {
    keccak(data);
});
```

Then, just run the test from the `util/hash` directory:

```
cargo-fuzz run keccak -- -runs=100
```

The extra flags on the end are to pipe options to libFuzzer. In this case, we are telling cargo-fuzz to stop after 100 runs. Otherwise, it would run until it finds a crash (unlikely for such a simple fuzzing test).